Let's talk about class properties.
Pretty short little section here.
I'm gonna show you how to make class
components a little bit easier to write.
So there is a future spec of
JavaScript which is gonna get added
called class properties.
I don't even know what stage it is.
But anyway, it's a great proposal.
So I'm gonna show you how to set
that up today in your React project.
In general, I don't advise you to
add experimental JavaScript to your
projects like your long
term maintenance projects.
And to give you a good example of that,
decorators, right,
we've been talking about
decorators in JavaScript for
years and basically as long
as I've been in the industry.
If you're not familiar decorators
are a really cool feature in
languages like Python, where you can,
kind of augment the ability of classes and
functions with a statement.
I know a company that added decorators
everywhere inside of their codebase.
And then they changed the way
the decorators were gonna work and
then they changed it again.
And so they had to keep refactoring
their app to keep up with how the spec
was changing and that sucks.
So in general do not do
that except this time.
[LAUGH].
I don't think this one's gonna change
it hasn't changed in a while and
it's coming I wish I just look up, what
this is actually in terms of the stage.
It is, so I think it got added.
It might even been added this year.
But still, sometimes I'm gonna
show you how to do this.
So in the case in the future that you
want to add additional Babel plugins that
this is how you do
specifically with parcel.
So again go ahead and
copy this statement right here NPM
install-D@babble/plugin-proposal class
properties at 7.16.7.
We're gonna stop our server here for
a second paste that in there.
Then run our server again.
Okay, so once we've done that,
then we need to make a dot Babelrc file,
which we're gonna do really quick
So when I very first started teaching this
class, I don't know why this is upset.
That's fine, I don't care.
When I very first started
teaching this class,
we had to set up Babel totally ourselves.
It was a process we had to learn like
about the internals of Babel and all that.
And in general,
parcel just hides all that from you.
What all Babel is,
it's a code transformer, it takes code A,
it applies some transformation and
you get code B out the other side.
It's called a transpiler as you might
imagine but it's built into parcel for
the most part,
you don't have to care what it does.
But that was what's doing
the JSX transformations for you.
So like removing all that making
that understandable JavaScript,
it's what's taking your
futuristic JavaScript and
transpiling it to IE 11
compatible JavaScript.
It does all those kinds
of translations for you.
So what we're doing is we're augmenting
it's ability to do transformations for
a brand new feature of JavaScript
called class properties.
So, we're going to add this Babelrc here.
Again, you can just copy
that if you want to.
I'm gonna type it out just so
you can see it.
Let me bring up my notes here.
And you're gonna put in plugins.
This is gonna be an array and you're
gonna add @babel/plugin-proposal-
class-properties like that.
So a plugin is like a low level concept
in Babel basically what it contains
is a contains like a detector to say when
you see something that looks like this,
transform it so it comes out like this.
So, it forms your code from the futuristic
JavaScript to the past JavaScript so
that older brothers can understand.
Okay.
There's also things called presets.
So for example there's ones called
preset-n that your code is already being
run through.
But because we're not overriding
anything with it we don't have to like,
do anything to it.
Because the way this works with parcel
is it merges your Babel RC with their
existing Babel RC and that would
include things like preset react.
It includes preset-env and
a bunch of other stuff.
Okay, so now I want you to
bring back up your details page
So instead of this part,
which is kind of gross looking,
we can now just say state
equals loading true like this.
And then we can get rid of
this constructor altogether.
That is significantly
cleaner in my opinion, right,
you don't have this all this cruft
you'll have another function up here
you're just setting a class property
on details of loading true.
These are basically doing the same thing.
Makes sense?
The other thing that's really nice
about this is TypeScript knows how
to type it now.
So you get all these implicit TypeScript
type things out of it for free.
We'll go over that in Intermediate React.
Okay, so if you're gonna be writing
any amount of class components,
I suggest adding the class
properties transformation.
Because this looks really nice.
But yeah, this particular thing is
what you would call a class property,
the state equals blah.
That sets an instance variable
on the incidences of the class.
Cool, any questions about that?
>> So, we can do the JavaScript.
Can we do the JavaScript thing of kind
of declaring variables that don't
even exist yet, to be added onto
a component or a given class?
>> I mean, you could do whatever you want,
you could say, something like that, right?
And then down here, you could refer
to this as this dot lol, right?
So that's the connection there.
And you can change it later too,
I can say.
Right.
So whenever this details
class gets instantiated
that instance will then
have a this dot lol
on it it's not any more complex than that.
Okay.
That's it for that part.
So, I wanted to show you a bit more about,
managing state inside
of a class component.
So I want you to create,
we're gonna make like a little like
a carousel of photos for this page.
And we're gonna do that
with a class component.
You already know how to do that with
a function component that you could just
use, like use state and all that kind
of stuff and it would work perfectly.
And again, that's typically how I would do
it now, but I'm gonna show you how to do
it with the class components, so
that when you need to, you know how to.
So make a new file called carousel.
And I've now had to write carousel
enough times that I know how to spell,
It took a few times.
Here we're gonna import component.
From react, by the way,
I'll just to show you.
So I will frequently see
people do this instead.
And this is totally valid as well.
You'll just say import react from react.
And they'll say, class carousel
extends react dot component.
Some people find that preferable
I have no judgment there.
It's totally up to you how
you wanna handle that.
I just like in importing individual things
at again, just kind of out to have it.
Okay, export default carousel like that.
And then we're gonna make a little
component here that does exactly what we
want to.
I'm gonna switch this to be two spaces
because it just drives me crazy
every single time.
Okay, so
first thing we're gonna create our state.
So the first bit of state we're gonna
have what is the active photo being shown
because if there's like
an array of like 10 photos.
We're gonna show the first
one first right.
So active zero and then we're gonna do
something kind of interesting here.
We're gonna give it default properties so
let's say you instantiate like
a new carousel but you don't give
it any pet photos whatsoever.
All right.
What do you want it to do?
Do you want to not show do you want
it to show some sort of placeholder?
In this case we want it to show
some sort of placeholder right?
So we're gonna say static
default props equals images and
then we're gonna give it this
array of like a placeholder.
Pets-images.dev-apis.com/pets/none.jpg.
So let's talk about state.
Notice that one of these has static and
one of them doesn't.
Why?
I mean like I've tried to explain this
a couple of different ways because it
is a bit strange.
That we're going back to what's
the difference between a class and
what's the difference between an instance,
right.
So every carousel will have its own state
that belongs to every individual carousel.
If I have five carousels render to
a page they will all have different
state.actives, right.
This one can be displaying photo one this
one can be displaying photo zero this one
can be displaying photo 15, right.
And they're all individual have their own
state that manage their own state and
they have no concept of each other, right.
Default props is all carousels universally
share one default props, right?
Because this is not a mutable thing.
This is not gonna change ever.
It's just for
default props like when you start out,
this is what the default props are.
So they can all share one
instance of that, right?
So they all have the exact same,
it's actually literally the same array.
They're all pointing.
They come back and say,
console.log.carousel.default props, right?
These are all going to be
precisely the same thing.
And again,
notice that they're on the instance or
like the class carousel,
not an instance of carousel, right.
This would be different than example
of saying like const x = new carousel,
which you wouldn't do this
with react component.
You would just do this
with a JavaScript class.
And then you say x.state.active, right?
So this is now an instance variable
of this new carousel that I created
whereas this one belongs
to all carousels generally.
Have explained that in sufficient amount
of roundabout ways to understand make
sense.
It's weird, that's why I'm kind
of dwelling on it for a second.